

Q:What is a transaction? 
Ans: A Database Transaction is a set of database operations that must be treated as whole, 
     means either all operations are executed or none of them.
	
     An example can be bank transaction from one account to another account. 
     Either both debit and credit operations must be executed or none of them.


Q:What are ACID properties?
ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) is a set of properties that guarantee 
that database transactions are processed reliably.


1.Atomicity:
By this, we mean that either the entire transaction takes place at once or doesn’t happen at all.

->It involves the following two operations.

—Abort: If a transaction aborts, changes made to database are not visible.
—Commit: If a transaction commits, changes made are visible.

NOTE: Atomicity is also known as the ‘All or nothing rule’.


2.Consistency:
-> The database must be consistent before and after the transaction.

This means that integrity constraints must be maintained so that the database is consistent before and 
after the transaction. It refers to the correctness of a database. Referring to the example above,
The total amount before and after the transaction must be maintained.
Total before T occurs = 500 + 200 = 700.
Total after T occurs = 400 + 300 = 700.
Therefore, database is consistent. Inconsistency occurs in case T1 completes but T2 fails. As a result T is incomplete.


3.Isolation:
->Multiple transactions occur independently without interference.


This property ensures that multiple transactions can occur concurrently without leading to the inconsistency of database state.
Transactions occur independently without interference. Changes occurring in a particular transaction will not be visible to 
any other transaction until that particular change in that transaction is written to memory or has been committed. 
This property ensures that the execution of transactions concurrently will result in a state that is equivalent to a state 
achieved these were executed serially in some order.


4.Durability:
->The changes of a successful transaction occurs even if the system failure occurs.

This property ensures that once the transaction has completed execution, the updates and modifications to the database are 
stored in and written to disk and they persist even if a system failure occurs. These updates now become permanent and are 
stored in non-volatile memory. The effects of the transaction, thus, are never lost.

 