#Difference between Clustered and Non-clustered index:

1. Clustered Index :
->Clustered index is created only when both the following conditions satisfy –

->The data or file, that you are moving into secondary memory should be in sequential or sorted order.
->There should be non key value, means the data should be unique.

->Whenever you apply clustered indexing in a table, it will perform sorting in that table only. 
->You can create only one clustered index in a table like primary key. 
->Clustered index is as same as dictionary where the data is arranged by alphabetical order.


#Example of Non-clustered Index –

create table Student
( Roll_No int primary key, 
Name varchar(50), 
Gender varchar(30), 
Mob_No bigint );

insert into Student 
values (4, 'afzal', 'male', 9876543210 );

insert into Student 
values (3, 'sudhir', 'male', 9675432890 );

insert into Student 
values (5, 'zoya', 'female', 8976453201 );

create nonclustered index NIX_FTE_Name
on Student (Name ASC); 

->Here, roll no is a primary key, hence there is automatically a clustered index.



2. Non-Clustered Index :

# If we want to apply non-clustered index in NAME column (in ascending order), 
  then the new table will be created for that column.

->Output before applying non-clustered index :

	ROLL_NO	NAME	GENDER	MOB_NO
	3	sudhir	male	9675432890
	4	afzal	male	9876543210
	5	zoya	female	8976453201


->Output after applying non-clustered index :

	NAME	ROW ADDRESS
	Afzal	3452
	Sudhir	5643
	zoya	9876

Row address is used because, if someone wants to search the data for sudhir, then by 
using the row address he/she will directly go to that row address and can fetch the data directly.




	#Difference between Clustered and Non-clustered index :

CLUSTERED INDEX							NON-CLUSTERED INDEX

1.Clustered index is faster.				Non-clustered index is slower.

2.Clustered index requires less memory for operations.	Non-Clustered index requires more memory for operations.

3.In clustered index, index is the main data.		In Non-Clustered index, index is the copy of data.

4.A table can have only one clustered index.		A table can have multiple non-clustered index.

5.Clustered index has inherent ability of storing data 	Non-Clustered index does not have inherent ability of storing data on the disk.
on the disk.	

6.Clustered index store pointers to block not data.	Non-Clustered index store both value and a pointer to actual row that holds data.

7.In Clustered index leaf nodes are actual data itself.	In Non-Clustered index leaf nodes are not the actual data itself rather they only contains 							included columns.

8.Clustered key defines order of data within table.	Index key defines order of data within index.


10.A Clustered index is a type of index in which table	A Non-Clustered index is a special type of index in which logical order of index does not 	records are physically reordered to match the index.	match physical stored order of the rows on disk. 
	

